# PyBer_Analysis

## Overview and Purpose
The executive team at PyBer has asked for an analysis of weekly ride sharing data for Urban, Suburban, and Rural rides from January 2019 - April 2019.  The data will be used to find discrepancies in total and average fares between the city sizes.

## Analysis
When comparing total rides and total drivers between the city types, it is natural that the Urban cities would have more total rides and drivers than Suburban or Rural cities.  [The Summary Data Chart](analysis/pyber_summary_snip.PNG), shows an obvious discrepancy in total rides as compared to total drivers in Urban cities.  In fact, the number of total drivers (2,405) is nearly 50% greater than the number of total rides (1,625), giving each driver an average of about 0.7 rides.  This is not the case in Rural and Suburban cities where drivers have an average of 1.6 and 1.3 rides respectively.  This leads to the average fare per driver being significantly lower in Urban cities.  Total fares seem to be consistent with population density, with the average fare per ride varying by $4-$6 between city types.   When referring to [Ride Fare Data](analysis/Fig3.PNG)  in general, fares are seen to be fairly consistent across all city types, although Rural cities have a slightly greater standard deviation ($14.50)  than Suburban and Urban city fares ($10.60, $11.70).  This is presumably because Rural cities have a lower population density and the distance of rides may vary from one to the next.  Average fares per ride are affected by city type due to the distance one must travel in one type of city compared to another.  Average fares per driver in Rural cities are greater than other city types, again because of the distance a person must travel.  As discussed above, the average fare per driver in Urban cities is significantly lower than other city types because there are more total drivers than total rides.  [Total fares by city type](analysis/PyBer_fare_summary.png) follow a similar pattern over time apart from a dip in Suburban total fares in early April.

## Summary
To address the average fare per driver in Urban cities, the number of drivers should be reduced.  Having more drivers than rides will skew the data.  A recommendation would be to remove drivers who have not driven since January 2019.  Going forward, drivers should have a monthly quota in order to maintain their active driver status.  Given that the distance of a ride is greater in Rural cities as compared to Urban cities, a consideration would be basing fares on the duration of a ride in Rural cities rather than the distance.  Rural cities are also in need of more drivers.  Consider incentivizing new Rural drivers.
